# boilerplate-pmm-vcpkg-cmake

## Introduction

This example project provides the boilerplate and a potential starting point for a C++ project that utilizes the [CMAKE](https://cmake.org/) build system, [VCPKG](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg) package manager, and [PMM](https://github.com/vector-of-bool/pmm) package manager manager.

This sample project uses PMM to automatically bootstrap VCPKG, download the required packages, and integrate the packages into CMAKE when CMAKE is run. The main build target executable source code, which utilizes the [FMT](https://github.com/fmtlib/fmt) library, can be found in ```src/main.cpp```.

Please consult the documentation for CMAKE, VCPKG, PMM, and FMT for more details.

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Git
- CMAKE version 3.2 or later
- C++17 compiler

### Building the project

The following steps assume you're using a Linux OS, but the steps for a Windows OS should be similar, except for potentially the directory structure generated by the build.

1. Clone the repository

   $ ```git clone https://github.com/ariveron/boilerplate-pmm-vcpkg-cmake```

2. Go into the repo directory

   $ ```cd boilerplate-pmm-vcpkg-cmake```

3. Run CMAKE to create the build files

   $ ```cmake .```

4. Use CMAKE to build the project

   $ ```cmake --build .```

5. You should now be able to run the program

   $ ```./bin/main```

   ```The answer is 42```

## Adding and removing packages

In the root level ```CMakeLists.txt``` file, within the ```pmm``` CMAKE function, you can see where the VCPKG ```REVISION``` is specified as the ```master``` branch of the VCPKG repositor. You can change this to a revision or a tag so that the VCPKG version used is the same on every build.

Within the ```pmm``` cmake function you'll also notice the list of required VCPKG packages after the ```REQUIRES``` keyword. In this example the only package specified is ```fmt```. This should be a space-seperated list of VCPKG names.

You should consult the documentation for each package. Typically, you'll be able to bring in the package into CMAKE by using the ```find_package``` cmake function. In the case of the FMT library, we can add it to the ```main``` target (```src/CMakeLists```) using the ```target_link_libraries``` CMAKE function.

If you're going to be using this template as a starting point for your project, simply add and remove packages and libraries from the ```CMakeLists.txt``` files as needed. You may also want to change the CMAKE project name and create a new git repository for it at the very least.
